Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2017-10-22T15:18:06+02:00

====== Cashews ======
Created zondag 22 oktober 2017

It was a cloudy gray evening in springtime, but the trees were stripped bare of foliage, and the fields churned into mud by the treads of armoured vehicles. It looked and felt like winter.

Over the muddy asphalt rolled a steady procession of heavy vehicles. Their contours suggested a military nature, but they were painted a bright, if soiled, yellow, as if they had been previously used in the construction industry. They were carrying refugees.

A twelve-wheeler rumbled past me at little faster than walking pace. It had the squat nose of an armoured personnel carrier, and carried two rows of large gas cannisters on an open platform at the back. At the front, three men were standing on the wheel flanges, hanging onto a bar which looked as though it had been welded onto the cabin's roof for the sole purpose of providing purchase. The vehicle was moving slowly enough that if one of the three men had fallen off, he would have easily been able to climb back on again.

The man in the center was hanging on to the bar with one hand, and trying to eat a handful of cashew nuts with the other. His head was encased in a helmet-like splint, somewhat reminescent of the restraining headgear used on mentally handicapped patients prone to self-mutilation. I supposed he must have had a recent skull fracture. He was trying to throw the nuts into his mouth, which I thought odd, because he was hardly able to open his mouth, and it was obvious to me after watching him make a couple of failed attempts, that he would never be able to catch the nuts.

The same thought must have ocurred to him. After tossing a nut, which bounced off his lips, he caught it deftly in the same hand, and turned around to offer it to the man hanging on next to him. The nut was accepted silently in a grimy, blackened hand. They exchanged no words.

The vehicle rumbled on past me as I walked by, and I could no longer see the men riding at the front.
