Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2017-10-22T15:21:34+02:00

====== Chase ======
Created zondag 22 oktober 2017

I walked up the street away from the hotel. So much had changed, I did not recognise it any more. I walked up to the intersection. Traffic was light: the occasional car, a motorcycle or two, every once in a while something bigger like a truck or bus. The streets were almost deserted.

There was a short stretch of low concrete wall bordering on the main road. Intending to cross while the traffic was light, I hopped on the wall.

"Woah!" There was a big hole in the ground on the other side, where I had expected to see a dirty grassy verge covered with vagrant trash. It was pretty deep, more than two meters deep: it appeared to be part of a storm drain crossing the road. The ceiling had caved in, revealing muddy, ankle deep water running over broken concrete slabs. I'd almost fallen in. Gingerly, I stepped off the wall and walked around the hole.

There was no traffic so I crossed over the unmarked two lane road. The opposite side of the road contained trees and sparse shrubbery; through it I could see what seemed to be a path leading to habitation further up. A short way off to my right there was a path leading to the shrubbery. I walked to it. I had gone a short way along the path when I passed a man sitting under a tree. Ahead of me, some twenty or thirty paces down the path was another man. Further up were some dilapidated huts and unkempt farmland.

I stopped walking. The man sitting under the tree had matted hair reaching past his shoulders, and had a week-old beard. He was completely naked. He was looking at me with small, narrow, bloodshot eyes. He did not seem completely sane, but neither did he seem retarded. His body was stocky, muscular, a trifle soft around the middle. Definitely not the physique I associated with the mentally ill vagrants that are commonplace in these parts.

He was looking at me with undisguised anger. The man further up was clothed in a dirty white gown. He too was looking at me: I sensed less anger but it did not feel welcoming at all. I decided not to walk on any further.

"Hello" I said.

"You don't belong here" the man said in English. His diction was controlled, educated. I started to get worried. ¨Soft motherfucker¨ he growled. The other man started walking towards me. I decided it was time to go. I'm not easily scared, and am confident of my ability to handle myself in a fight, but the feeling I was getting was that of stepping into a snake's nest. I had no idea who, or what, or how many other people were further up in the huts. Who would come running at the sound of trouble. This was kidnap country. This was crime country. This was senseless violence country.

I turned around and started back to the road. He stood up.

¨Boy¨ he said, grabbing hold of my arm in a strong grip. The other man began to trot towards us. I twisted my arm and shook it free. I might be able to take him in a one-on-one but not both of them and certainly not any other friends they might have had nearby. I turned and ran towards the main road. He ran after me, shouting. He was surprisingly fast.

I'd had a short head start and could have outrun him. However his unprovoked aggression had gotten my goat. My inner monkey was aroused, it's status threatened. I slowed down and turned to face him. He rushed at me, ready to pound me down. I waited; when he was nearly on me I grabbed his forearm, swung around and pushed him into the open storm drain.

He fell, grunting heavily in pain as he smacked into the filthy green water two meters below. I looked down. He lay groaning: he probably wasn't seriously injured but he was stunned, hurt, and wouldn't be getting out easily. I looked back across the road. The other man had stopped at the edge on the other side and was looking at me. He made no effort to cross the road. He stood there, looking at me. I couldn't read his expression.

When I was sure he wouldn't follow I turned around, jumped over the low concrete wall and trotted back down the street back to the gated, barbed wire safety of the hotel.
