Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2017-10-22T15:24:03+02:00

====== Greymen ======
Created zondag 22 oktober 2017

graymen

City

City (or cities), inhabited by Greymen and humans
The buildings are Greymen and the humans live as vermin
Greymen are physically substantially larger than humans (height around 3m, bulky - mass roughly that of a cow or horse)
and their architecture reflects this. Humans are tolerated in Greymen cities. Human pets are not tolerated by Greymen
Humans are not allowed to build permanent structures, but may build temporary accomodations
They may sleep on the streets, in abandoned Greymen structures, or live in container houses (not as uncomfortable as it sounds)
Greymen vehicles display no lights at night. (Either because Greymen have better night vision or the vehicles have other means of collision detection)
' Are Greymen related to humans' Descended from' Ancestors of' They are bipedal humanoids. They breathe the same air.
Don't eat the same food, cannot interreproduce, but still, what are the odds'
Greymen's attitudes towards humans consists of general, though not universal, tolerance.
There appear to have been more Greymen in the past than in the present. Too many unused, empty, or abandoned Greymen structures.
Greymen motives and behaviour poorly understood by humans. It often appears arbitrary. Greymen and humans do not interact on a personal level.
More like humans and pigeons. Although Greymen will employ human labour sometimes.
Humans have to hitch rides on Greymen vehicles. This means, nearly all the time, Greymen freight transportation.
Unless a Greymen lets a human into its personal vehicle.
Sometimes human families build "houses" in areas they hope Greymen aren't using, only to find out days, weeks, months or years
later that their "houses" are demolished by Greymen for Greymen use. [Protagonist childhood in such a structure, memory of destruction']

Human social structure

Widespread societal cohesion is lacking
Greymen do not police human beings, nor dispense justice, nor make laws or settle disputes.
They will deal with humans who damage Greymen structure, or cause nuisances, hindrances, trouble etc. to Greymen or Greymen property.
Humans, not having very much control over the environment they live in, have ad-hoc social structures.
The most stable are those around the nuclei where Greymen employ human labour and provide humans with recompense (what').
The least stable or structured are those where humans essentially live as scavengers and vermin, trying to scrounge enough to get by on,
and not attract unwanted Greymen attention.

Stable

In the nuclei humans are allowed to erect temporary structures (think portacabin bungalows etc).
You have nuclei based on labour for Greymen which tend to migrate around with Greymen need shifts.
This is not necessarily abrupt; projects in which thousands of humans are employed may last decades.

Greymen stations

Huge concrete pits, massive yellow locomotives some 10m wide.
