Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2017-10-22T16:00:18+02:00

====== Humans ======
Created zondag 22 oktober 2017

humans

They live in woods, in shrubs, in meadows
they are intelligent but feel an almost irresistible urge to crawl into the shrubs and live there

What if people could regenerate limbs?
How would they face the prospect of injury, knowing their limbs/flesh/fac would heal?
Would the new limbs not differ from the old? E.g. if the arms are trained\tanned\tattood?
If they can recover from horrific injuries up to partial loss of brain tissue, are they quite the same afterwards?
how do they face the prospect of pain, injury, torture?
Will they get cancer more often? Will that cancel the positive addition to lifespan? Will they die at the same age as us?

How about people who are different? Children who do not play together but crouch on the ground making keening yelps.

type 1.
They live in woods, in shrubs, in meadows
they are intelligent but feel an almost irresistible urge to crawl into the shrubs and live there

type 2.
They heal very quickly. They can regrow lost limbs. Scar tissue usually heals. If they do not immediately die from their injuries, even horrific ones, they almost always eventually recover. They do not age as we do. Their genome decays from accumulated damage over time. They eventually die, usually from cancer or degenerative disease. Brain damage heals. Their personalities may change - sometimes drastically - as a result. They are not afraid of pain or injury. They take terrific risks by our standards. They have less qualms about inflicting injury on others - after all, their victims will survive. They do not have good memories. Neural connections containing memories are rearranged over time. At 200 years of age they have no recollection of being 20.

type 3.
Their children do not play with each other. They do not seem quite human. The children play by themselves, or sit quietly doing nothing, or make sudden howling noises. The adults are more social, but look slightly off. Their skin texture and complexion is often plastic-like, giving he impression of artificialness. Others have spongy, papier-mache like skin with ill-formed facial features. Their facial expressions do not match ours, giving an uncanny valley effect. For instance, of psychopathy. 

type 4
Different humans live with each other. Think kids and adults, except the relationship is permanent. Kid lives with ‘parent’. ‘Parent’ is not his parent. What causes them to stay together? When does the kid leave to move to another parent? The kids’ memories are also ephemeral, with a lifespan of 10 years i.e. they forget ‘ten years ago’ very quickly
