Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2017-10-21T23:49:34+02:00

====== Pangu ======
Created zaterdag 21 oktober 2017

Pangu was one of my best friends. We had played together almost as long as I could remember. He would often come visit me. I would wake up in the morning and go outside the hut, and Pangu would be sitting under a nearby tree waiting patiently for me. He got along reasonably well with the other children, but he considered me to be his closest friend.

Pangu looked different from me and the other children. He was darker and hairier, much hairier. He had more hair than most adults. His limbs were long and scawny, but he was astoundingly strong, and all the children learned very quickly to respect his physical prowess in brawls or rough-and-tumble. He was a good climber, very dexterous and had an almost preternatural instinct for ferretting out where delicacies lay: ripe fruits hidden in trees, succulent seeds, underground water sources, lairs of edible grubs and animals. This of course made him popular with the younger children: he was basically even tempered, and  having Pangu around more or less guaranteed a fat and happy day.

He was not good in everything: he spoke seldom, and slowly, although he seemed to have no trouble following what we were saying. He had no sense of humour that I could discern: he took everything very literally and did not understand the point of jokes. I never considered him to be stupid: he understood the actual physical world we lived in very well, better than most of us, but I did notice as we grew older that he did not fit into the evening fireside activities of the village. The chat, the banter, the stories, all of these he tried to follow but never fully grasped and was never a full part of.

When we were a little younger, Pangu invited me to lodge a few days with him and his family. My parents were disapproving: not of Pangu himself, who they liked, but I sensed that they did not know or trust his folk. I was a headstrong child, so I was determined to go, but I recall my father warning me to be careful. I did not understand his warning, but nodded and promised to be alert.

Pangu turned out to live a lot further away than I had thought. I had often seen him in the mornings, thus assumed that he lived at most a half hour's walk away. It took us four or five hours to get to his dwelling, deep in the forest. Pangu had made the journey countless times, so it took him shorter than when he was with me, but he told me he often left in the dark well before dawn to get to my village to play with me and the other children. I asked if there were no children in his village, and he said there were. I asked how often he played with them, and he said "Sometimes". I asked if he liked them, and he didn't answer.

Pangu's village was both puzzling and disappointing. There was no actual village to speak of, at least as I was used to. The villages I knew were built on cleared ground, with huts and houses built out of wood or clay bricks. We had vegetable gardens and wells, and three or four central squares where people gathered in the evenings to build fires and sit and talk. Pangu's village seemed to consist of a few scattered stick and grass thatch dwellings in largely uncleared forest, without any apparent organization or rhyme and reason. 

Pangu lived in a grass thatch hut with his mother and father and siblings. They were, like him, dark, silent and hairy. I saw his father briefly, but we never spoke. His mother was around most often. Pangu communicated with his mother in a language different from what he used with me. It sounded like short guttural grunts. She never said anything to me, although I chattered away freely to her. She seemed to understand some of what I said, but never talked back. 

Even by my rather lax standards, I found Pangu's home filthy.  In our village we defecated in latrine pits built some way away from the house.  In Pangu's village people seemed to me to shit anywhere, any time, without much consideration. I saw Pangu's mother pee on the floor of their hut numerous times, and more than once I stepped in a pile of feces left behind in the hut by someone in their household. We all slept on the floor of the single roomed hut, although Pangu's father rarely slept with us. The floor was infested with vermin: the first night I was bitten so often that I went outside, climbed into the lowest branch of a nearby tree, and slept there instead. In the morning I woke up to see Pangu asleep under the tree. He had followed me out in the night.

I wakened him and after stretching and relieving ourselves we went in search of breakfast. In our village it was not unusual for me to follow the scents of cooking and ask for food  at any neighbour who had started cooking before my tardy, late-sleeping mother had arisen.  It was not custom to refuse, especially to small children, and Pangu had accompanied me a number of times on these quests. In Pangu's village however, they did not apparently share our customs. I asked Pangu where we would get food from, and he replied "Mama".

We found his mother a short distance from the house, pounding some tubers over a thin smoky fire under a free-standing lean-to built out of sticks and broad leaves. I greeted her with the usual "Good morning, our mother", at which she nodded but did not reply. Pangu squatted next to the fire to wait until the food was ready. We were joined by one of his sisters, who had accompanied Pangu once or twice to our village in the past,  and a very young sibling of indeterminate sex.

We ate out of the cooking pot, scooping tuber paste out with our hands. It was bland, not entirely unpleasant, but filled very quickly. After five or six handfuls the next bite brought a sudden rise of gorge, so I stopped and waited for the rest to finish. They ate hungrily and methodically, scraping out the last bits of tuber from the pot. Aftterwards the youngest kid rolled over and promptly went to sleep. Pangu's sister got up and collected a couple of tubers from a cache in the lean-to, and started peeling them in anticipation of the next batch of eaters from the family. That was women's work, so Pangu and I left to play. As we walked away, I saw Pangu's father approach with the half-skinned carcass of some large animal he had killed, and throw it into the lean-to for the women to clean and prepare. The carcass looked familiar but I couldn't quite place it.

I asked Pangu what type of animal his father had killed.

"A man", he answered. 

At first I didnt understand his words correctly, so I repeated stupidly  "A man?"

"Yes."  said Pangu. "But not man like you. Man like me". 

"You mean your tribe?  You eat your people in your tribe?"

"Yes." He added: "But sometimes maybe they eat man like you. I don't know. So when you sleep I sleep next to you. So they will not eat you".  Seeing the expression on my face he told me solemnly  "My father will never eat you. He does not eat man like you. You are my friend."

I was shocked by the revelation: the concept of cannibalism was new to me, and it put me off for the better part of the morning. However being young, and possessing a naturally happy-go-lucky temperament I soon put it behind me and went exploring with Pangu. 

We spent the next days frolicking about in the forest, climbing trees, catching small animals, trying anything that looked edible. He showed me how to climb the long, thin trees, and avoid the thorny underbrush by moving from branch to branch in the canopy. We would have races in which we would see who could cover the equivalent of an hour's walking via the trees without ever setting foot on the ground. Pangu won almost every time, but I became quite good at it as well. His sister would join us sometimes. She spoke  less than Pangu, but understood me about as well. She even laughed, a hoarse hacking giggle,  something I had never seen Pangu do. I found out that I could get her  to laugh quite easily with slapstick, pretending to trip, fall or hurt myself. I once lost my grip and actually fell out of a tree while racing Pangu. It hurt, winded me, and left me limping for the rest of the day, and that sent her into almost hysterical convulsions of giggling. Despite the soreness, I was both amused and gratified by her laughter, and spent the evening limping about exaggeratedly whenever I saw her, an act that never failed to floor her with teary-eyed bouts of giggling. 

Although I spent most of my time with Pangu, I got along with the rest of his family quite well. I even caught his mother looking at me with something resembling fondness, especially when I had gotten his sister to laugh at my antics. I never got quite used to their food: the tubers were bland and unappetizing, and I did not dare eat the meat. So I lived primarily from what Pangu and I foraged and caught ourselves. 

After five days my father came to collect me. I had lost track of the days, and forgot to return when I had promised, so he made the trek in search of me. In retrospect he must have been very worried: he had no idea where Pangu actually lived, and only a vague notion of the location of Pangu's tribe's village, so he had made a - for him - harrowing journey to an area filled with possible cannibals to look for his son. One of Pangu's younger brothers spotted him when he was walking in their village, and came to tell us that he had seen my father. Upon hearing this we followed him back.

When my father saw me he gave me a hug, which was unusual for him, and said simply "It's time to come home". 

I took my leave of Pangu's family, and because my father was watching I was as polite as tradition demanded, with "Thank you our sister" and "It will be well with you our mother" and "I will see you again our brother"  all around. The whole family gathered to watch us leave, even Pangu's father. Pangu, as I expected, escorted us back all the way back to my village.
