Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2017-10-21T22:27:42+02:00

====== The Road ======
Created zaterdag 21 oktober 2017

We would often run to the road to see if someone would come driving by that day.

It usually took us an hour to walk there from the village.  You could run the distance in half that time, which we sometimes did if we thought we heard the sounds of vehicles in the distance. Mostly though we would trek through the tall grass, talking and frolicing and occasionally chasing each other. The route was fat with karga seeds and watery grass bulbs, so we could stay away from home all day if we wanted to.

The road itself was a huge red scar across the grass fields, a vast wide line of dust in the dry season, and mud when the rains fell. There were much fewer vehicles when the rains were heavy. Weeks could go by without a single truck struggling through. 

Today though we were in luck. A freight truck lumbered into view on the horizon shortly after we arrived. The younger kids were barely started on their games, and we older children had just settled under a moab tree to gossip, when we heard the sound of its engine.

Excitedly we stood at the side of the road, waving at the truck. It took a while, because it wasnt travelling very fast, but when it drew level with us it stopped. The driver waved back, opened the door of his cabin and stepped down. He had a good natured smile.

"I greet you, my children" he said. 

"We greet you, our uncle" we chorused. 

One of the smaller kids came forward eagerly with a grubby handful of karga seeds and grass stalks. Somewhat to my surprise, and to his credit, the driver accepted the gift. He cracked the seeds expertly with his teeth and sucked out the marrow. Then he pinched off the grass stalks, chewed the bulbs to extract the juice, and spat out the fibre. He did this as practised as anyone from the village, which made us ask if he was from around these parts.

"No my children, I come from the east, about three  weeks walking from here" he said. "But we also know karga there".

We asked what he was ferrying, and where he was going to, and what it was like in his village, and if his truck was expensive, and if he had children of his own, and if anything of import had happened anywhere that he knew of, and what his name was.

Chuckling, he tried to answer all our questions, paying particular attention to the youngest listeners. He was ferrying a mixed assortiments of goods, mostly non-perishable tubers and machine parts. He was headed for a series of towns three days driving to the west. His truck cost more than the combined wealth of our village, at which we all gasped in awe. He had no children of his own, but he had a betrothed, and hoped for children some day. He had news of births and deaths, illnesses and calamities and good tidings in the villages he had passed the previous few days, which we duly committed to memory to later regurgitate at the village evening fires. In our turn, we eagerly told him of the happenings in our village, which he gravely listened to, and gave him messages for the next villages, which he solemnly promised to deliver. His name was Hakhami, and after an hour he cleared his throat, and said he had to be on his way. He reached into his cabin, brought out a tin of mog nuts and emptied it into our outstretched, grateful hands.

"It shall be well with you, my children" he said as he climbed back into his truck and started the engine.

"It shall be well with you, our uncle", we answered, mouths full with the aromatic, chewy mog nuts. 

He waved, pulled the truck into starting gear and trundled away in a cloud of dust and emission gases. We waved until he was out of sight.

We went back under the moab trees, to wait and see if another vehicle would pass by. But none came the rest of the day, and towards the evening the younger children were getting hungry and restive, so we decided to walk back to the village.
